---
title: "Deploy .Net Core app to Azure App Service via Github Actions"
description: "Setting up a GitHub Action to deploy a .Net Core web app to Azure App Service from your GitHub repository involves a couple steps. This blog post shows a detailed guide to help you set up a CI/CD pipeline using GitHub Actions."
date: "2024-05-13"
draft: false
slug: "deploy-net-core-app-to-azure-app-service-via-github-actions"
tags:
---

<p>Setting up a GitHub Action to deploy a .Net Core web app to Azure App Service from your GitHub repository involves a couple steps. This blog post shows a detailed guide to help you set up a CI/CD pipeline using GitHub Actions.</p><h3 id="step-1-create-a-github-workflow-file">Step 1: Create a GitHub Workflow File</h3><ol><li><strong>Navigate to your repository</strong> on GitHub.</li><li><strong>Create a new directory</strong> called <code>.github/workflows</code> in the root of your repository if it doesn't already exist.</li><li>Inside this directory, <strong>create a new file</strong> called <code>azure-deploy.yml</code> or any other descriptive name.</li></ol><h3 id="step-2-define-the-workflow">Step 2: Define the Workflow</h3><p>Add the following content to your <code>azure-deploy.yml</code> file. This configuration sets up a workflow that triggers on pushes to the <code>main</code> branch and deploys to Azure App Service.</p><p>yaml<code>name: Deploy to Azure Web App<br><br>on:<br>  push:<br>    branches:<br>      - main  # Or whatever the branch name from which you want to deploy is<br><br>jobs:<br>  build-and-deploy:<br>    runs-on: ubuntu-latest  # Specifies the runner environment<br><br>    steps:<br>    - name: Checkout code<br>      uses: actions/checkout@v2  # Checks out your repository under $GITHUB_WORKSPACE<br><br>    - name: Set up .NET Core<br>      uses: actions/setup-dotnet@v1<br>      with:<br>        dotnet-version: '8.0.x'  # Specify your .NET version here<br><br>    - name: Build with dotnet<br>      run: dotnet build --configuration Release<br><br>    - name: Publish<br>      run: dotnet publish -c Release -o ${{env.DOTNET_ROOT}}/myapp<br><br>    - name: Deploy to Azure Web App<br>      uses: azure/webapps-deploy@v2<br>      with:<br>        app-name: 'YourAppName'  # Replace with your App Name<br>        slot-name: 'production'  # Optional: if using deployment slots<br>        publish-profile: ${{ secrets.AZURE_WEBAPP_PUBLISH_PROFILE }}<br>        package: ${{env.DOTNET_ROOT}}/myapp</code><br></p><h3 id="step-3-configure-azure-credentials-in-github-secrets">Step 3: Configure Azure Credentials in GitHub Secrets</h3><ol><li><strong>Navigate to the Azure portal</strong> and go to your App Service.</li><li><strong>Download the Publish Profile</strong>:<ul><li>Select your web app.</li><li>In the left sidebar, click on "Get publish profile" and download the file.</li></ul></li><li><strong>Add the Publish Profile to GitHub Secrets</strong>:<ul><li>Go back to your repository on GitHub.</li><li>Click on <strong>Settings</strong> &gt; <strong>Secrets</strong> &gt; <strong>Actions</strong>.</li><li>Click <strong>New repository secret</strong>.</li><li>Name the secret <code>AZURE_WEBAPP_PUBLISH_PROFILE</code> and paste the content of the publish profile you downloaded.</li></ul></li></ol><h3 id="step-4-commit-and-push-the-workflow">Step 4: Commit and Push the Workflow</h3><p>Commit the <code>azure-deploy.yml</code> file and push it to your repository. GitHub Actions will detect this new workflow file and start running the workflow on your next push to the <code>main</code> branch.</p><p>Done. Hopefully 😄</p>
