---
title: "B2C User Admin App Updates"
description: "I'm preparing to launch the initial version of the B2C User Administration app. Here are the updates that I've been working on in order to get the app set up and ready for customers to download."
date: "2024-02-27"
draft: false
slug: "b2c-user-admin-app-updates"
tags:
---

<p>I'm preparing to launch the initial version of the <a href="/creating-azure-b2c-user-admin-app/" rel="noreferrer">B2C User Administration app</a>. Here are the updates that I've been working on in order to get the app set up and ready for customers to download.</p><ul><li>Wrote the installation and set up documentation for the Web project.</li><li>Added WooCommerce to the <a href="https://parkasoftware.com" rel="noreferrer">Parka Software Co website</a>. I decided instead of creating a completely new product website, that for the time being a product landing page with WooCommerce products would be the simplest and quickest way to get the initial product out of the door and being used by people.</li><li><a href="/progress-azure-b2c-user-management-app/" rel="noreferrer">The last update I wrote</a> that I was developing a stand alone MVC web project that will allow users to view and edit Azure B2C User custom properties and extension attributes. Between then and now I took the functionality out of the Web project and created a <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/razor-pages/ui-class?view=aspnetcore-8.0&amp;tabs=visual-studio" rel="noreferrer">Razor Class Library</a> (RCL). By using a RCL I'm able to separate the functionality into a class library while keeping the views packaged along with the back end code. In this project there is specific logic for displaying the custom properties that I needed to keep with the back end code. Having the code packaged as a Razor Class Library gives me the flexibility that I need to accomplish this first version of the project. <br><br>By utilizing the RCL framework users can reference the packaged DLL into their project and automatically navigate to the predefined Razor Page URL. In this case that URL /B2CUsers and the entire project will start up. The RCL also always for authentication parameters. I can create a custom policy in the RCL and when a user installs the package, all they need to do is set up a policy with the same name as my predefined name and then they are able to add their own custom authentication to their B2C User Admin installation</li><li>While I was testing the RCL package I found a bug where the PATCH posts were not saving. This was working but now I need to debug into the program to see what the issue is. I'm glad I tested that very key feature before publishing the site as it's own product on the <a href="https://parkasoftware.com" rel="noreferrer">website</a>. </li><li>Added a generic person icon as the favicon. It's bare bones and not my favorite, but it's better than the generic .Net MVC favicon.<br></li></ul><h2 id="roadmap">Roadmap </h2><p>These are the updates I'm going to be working on over the next week or two:</p><ul><li>Debug save user feature where the custom properties/extensions are not saving back to Azure. Seems like an important feature to complete as the entire application gains its value from this one feature.</li><li>Figure out a versioning and how the Web and RCL packages will be versioned</li><li>Set up the Woo Commerce product for the Web application</li><li>Package the Web project for deployment and purchase on Woo Commerce</li></ul>
